{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green97\blue151;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c2745\c45882\c65882;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh15520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 access \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The ability and means to communicate with or otherwise interact with a system, to use system resources to handle information, to gain knowledge of the information the system contains, or to control system components and functions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 access and identity management\'a0
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): identity and access management\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 access control \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of granting or denying specific requests for or attempts to: 1) obtain and use information and related information processing services; and 2) enter specific physical facilities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): access control mechanism\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 access control mechanism \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Security measures designed to detect and deny unauthorized access and permit authorized access to an information system or a physical facility.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 active attack \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An actual assault perpetrated by an intentional threat source that attempts to alter a system, its resources, its data, or its operations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): passive attack\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: IETF RFC 4949, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 active content \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Software that is able to automatically carry out or trigger actions without the explicit intervention of a user.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Advanced Persistent Threat \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources which allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (e.g., cyber, physical, and deception).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\

\b adversary \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An individual, group, organization, or government that conducts or has the intent to conduct detrimental activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): threat agent, attacker\
From: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 air gap \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: To physically separate or isolate a system from other systems or networks (verb).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The physical separation or isolation of a system from other systems or networks (noun).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 alert \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A notification that a specific attack has been detected or directed at an organization\'92s information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 All Source Intelligence\'a0\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Analyzes threat information from multiple sources, disciplines, and agencies across the Intelligence Community. Synthesizes and places intelligence information in context; draws insights about the possible implications.\
From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Analyze
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for highly specialized review and evaluation of incoming cybersecurity information to determine its usefulness for intelligence.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 antispyware software \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A program that specializes in detecting and blocking or removing forms of spyware.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): spyware\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 antivirus software
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A program that monitors a computer or network to detect or identify major types of malicious code and to prevent or contain malware incidents. Sometimes by removing or neutralizing the malicious code.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 asset
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A person, structure, facility, information, and records, information technology systems and resources, material, process, relationships, or reputation that has value.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Anything useful that contributes to the success of something, such as an organizational mission; assets are things of value or properties to which value can be assigned.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 asymmetric cryptography \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): public key cryptography\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An attempt to gain unauthorized access to system services, resources, or information, or an attempt to compromise system integrity.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The intentional act of attempting to bypass one or more security services or controls of an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): active attack, passive attack\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NCSD Glossary. NTSSI 4009 (2000), CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack method \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The manner or technique and means an adversary may use in an assault on information or an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack mode
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): attack method\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack path \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The steps that an adversary takes or may take to plan, prepare for, and execute an attack.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack pattern \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Similar cyber events or behaviors that may indicate an attack has occurred or is occurring, resulting in a security violation or a potential security violation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: For software, descriptions of common methods for exploiting software systems.\
Related Term(s): attack signature\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: Oak Ridge National Laboratory Visualization Techniques for Computer Network Defense, MITRE's CAPEC web site\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack signature \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A characteristic or distinctive pattern that can be searched for or that can be used in matching to previously identified attacks.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: An automated set of rules for identifying a potential threat (such as an exploit or the presence of an attacker tool) and possible responses to that threat.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): attack pattern\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009, ISSG V1.2 Database\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attack surface \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The set of ways in which an adversary can enter a system and potentially cause damage.\
Extended Definition: An information system's characteristics that permit an adversary to probe, attack, or maintain presence in the information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: Manadhata, P.K., & Wing, J.M. in Attack Surface Measurement; DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 attacker
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An individual, group, organization, or government that executes an attack.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: A party acting with malicious intent to compromise an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): adversary, threat agent\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: Barnum & Sethi (2006), NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 authenticate\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): authentication\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 authentication \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of verifying the identity or other attributes of an entity (user, process, or device).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Also the process of verifying the source and integrity of data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-21, NISTIR 7298\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 authenticity \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A property achieved through cryptographic methods of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted, resulting in confidence in the validity of a transmission, information or a message, or sender of information or a message.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): integrity, non-repudiation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 authorization
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A process of determining, by evaluating applicable access control information, whether a subject is allowed to have the specified types of access to a particular resource.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The process or act of granting access privileges or the access privileges as granted.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: OASIS SAML Glossary 2.0; Adapted from CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 availability \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The property of being accessible and usable upon demand.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, applies to assets such as information or information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): confidentiality, integrity\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, 44 U.S.C., Sec 3542\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 \strokec4 B
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 behavior monitoring \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Observing activities of users, information systems, and processes and measuring the activities against organizational policies and rule, baselines of normal activity, thresholds, and trends.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 behavioral monitoring \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): behavior monitoring\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 blacklist \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A list of entities that are blocked or denied privileges or access.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): whitelist\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Blue Team \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A group that defends an enterprise's information systems when mock attackers (i.e., the Red Team) attack, typically as part of an operational exercise conducted according to rules established and monitored by a neutral group (i.e., the White Team).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Also, a group that conducts operational vulnerability evaluations and recommends mitigation techniques to customers who need an independent technical review of their cybersecurity posture.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): Red Team, White Team\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 bot
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A computer connected to the Internet that has been surreptitiously / secretly compromised with malicious logic to perform activities under remote the command and control of a remote administrator.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: A member of a larger collection of compromised computers known as a botnet.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): zombie\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): botnet\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 bot herder
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): bot master\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 bot master
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The controller of a botnet that, from a remote location, provides direction to the compromised computers in the botnet.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): bot herder\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 botnet \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A collection of computers compromised by malicious code and controlled across a network.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 bug \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An unexpected and relatively small defect, fault, flaw, or imperfection in an information system or device.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Build Security In \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A set of principles, practices, and tools to design, develop, and evolve information systems and software that enhance resistance to vulnerabilities, flaws, and attacks.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: Trustworthy Cyberspace: Strategic Plan for the Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Program (2011), US-CERT's Build Security In website.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 C
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 capability \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The means to accomplish a mission, function, or objective.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): intent\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cipher
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): cryptographic algorithm\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 ciphertext \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Data or information in its encrypted form.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): plaintext\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cloud computing \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A model for enabling on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing capabilities or resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-145\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Collect & Operate
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for specialized denial and deception operations and collection of cybersecurity information that may be used to develop intelligence.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Collection Operations
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Executes collection using appropriate strategies and within the priorities established through the collection management process.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 computer forensics
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): digital forensics\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 computer network defense
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The actions taken to defend against unauthorized activity within computer networks.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Computer Network Defense Analysis \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Uses defensive measures and information collected from a variety of sources to identify, analyze, and report events that occur or might occur within the network in order to protect information, information systems, and networks from threats.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Computer Network Defense Infrastructure Support
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Tests, implements, deploys, maintains, reviews, and administers the infrastructure hardware and software that are required to effectively manage the computer network defense service provider network and resources; monitors network to actively remediate unauthorized activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 computer security incident\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): incident\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): event\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 confidentiality
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A property that information is not disclosed to users, processes, or devices unless they have been authorized to access the information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): availability, integrity\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, 44 U.S.C., Sec 3542\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 consequence
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The effect of an event, incident, or occurrence.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, the effect of a loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability of information or an information system on an organization's operations, its assets, on individuals, other organizations, or on national interests.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, National Infrastructure Protection Plan, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Continuity of Operations Plan
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A document that sets forth procedures for the continued performance of core capabilities and critical operations during any disruption or potential disruption.\
Related Term(s): Business Continuity Plan, Disaster Recovery Plan, Contingency Plan\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CPG 101, CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 critical infrastructure \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Definition: The systems and assets, whether physical or virtual, so vital to society that the incapacity or destruction of such may have a debilitating impact on the security, economy, public health or safety, environment, or any combination of these matters.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): key resource\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: National Infrastructure Protection Plan\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 critical infrastructure and key resources \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): critical infrastructure\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cryptanalysis\'a0\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The operations performed in defeating or circumventing cryptographic protection of information by applying mathematical techniques and without an initial knowledge of the key employed in providing the protection.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The study of mathematical techniques for attempting to defeat or circumvent cryptographic techniques and/or information systems security.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-130\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cryptographic algorithm \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A well-defined computational procedure that takes variable inputs, including a cryptographic key, and produces an output.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): key, encryption, decryption, symmetric key, asymmetric key\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cryptography \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The use of mathematical techniques to provide security services, such as confidentiality, data integrity, entity authentication, and data origin authentication.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The art or science concerning the principles, means, and methods for converting plaintext into ciphertext and for restoring encrypted ciphertext to plaintext.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): plaintext, ciphertext, encryption, decryption\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NIST SP 800-130; Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cryptology \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The mathematical science that deals with cryptanalysis and cryptography.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): cryptanalysis, cryptography\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Customer Service and Technical Support \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Addresses problems, installs, configures, troubleshoots, and provides maintenance and training in response to customer requirements or inquiries (e.g., tiered-level customer support).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cyber ecosystem \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The interconnected information infrastructure of interactions among persons, processes, data, and information and communications technologies, along with the environment and conditions that influence those interactions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cyber exercise \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A planned event during which an organization simulates a cyber disruption to develop or test capabilities such as preventing, detecting, mitigating, responding to or recovering from the disruption.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, DHS Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cyber incident \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): incident\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): event\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cyber incident response plan \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): incident response plan\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cyber infrastructure \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An electronic information and communications systems and services and the information contained therein.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The information and communications systems and services composed of all hardware and software that process, store, and communicate information, or any combination of all of these elements: \'95 Processing includes the creation, access, modification, and destruction of information. \'95 Storage includes paper, magnetic, electronic, and all other media types. \'95 Communications include sharing and distribution of information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIPP\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Cyber Operations \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Performs activities to gather evidence on criminal or foreign intelligence entities in order to mitigate possible or real-time threats, protect against espionage or insider threats, foreign sabotage, international terrorist activities, or to support other intelligence activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Cyber Operations Planning \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: in the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Performs in-depth joint targeting and cyber planning process. Gathers information and develops detailed Operational Plans and Orders supporting requirements. Conducts strategic and operational-level planning across the full range of operations for integrated information and cyberspace operations\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cybersecurity \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The activity or process, ability or capability, or state whereby information and communications systems and the information contained therein are protected from and/or defended against damage, unauthorized use or modification, or exploitation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Strategy, policy, and standards regarding the security of and operations in cyberspace, and encompass[ing] the full range of threat reduction, vulnerability reduction, deterrence, international engagement, incident response, resiliency, and recovery policies and activities, including computer network operations, information assurance, law enforcement, diplomacy, military, and intelligence missions as they relate to the security and stability of the global information and communications infrastructure.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, NIPP, DHS National Preparedness Goal; White House Cyberspace Policy Review, May 2009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 cyberspace \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, that includes the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NSPD 54/HSPD -23, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 D
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Data Administration
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops and administers databases and/or data management systems that allow for the storage, query, and utilization of data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data aggregation \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of gathering and combining data from different sources, so that the combined data reveals new information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The new information is more sensitive than the individual data elements themselves and the person who aggregates the data was not granted access to the totality of the information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data mining\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data breach \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The unauthorized movement or disclosure of sensitive information to a party, usually outside the organization, that is not authorized to have or see the information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data loss, data theft, exfiltration\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data integrity
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The property that data is complete, intact, and trusted and has not been modified or destroyed in an unauthorized or accidental manner.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): integrity, system integrity\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-27\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data leakage \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): data breach\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data loss \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The result of unintentionally or accidentally deleting data, forgetting where it is stored, or exposure to an unauthorized party.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data leakage, data theft\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data loss prevention\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A set of procedures and mechanisms to stop sensitive data from leaving a security boundary.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data loss, data theft, data leak\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: Liu, S., & Kuhn, R. (2010, March/April). Data loss prevention. IEEE IT Professional, 11(2), pp. 10-13.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data mining \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process or techniques used to analyze large sets of existing information to discover previously unrevealed patterns or correlations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data aggregation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data spill
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): data breach\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 data theft \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The deliberate or intentional act of stealing of information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data aggregation, data leakage, data loss\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 decipher \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: To convert enciphered text to plain text by means of a cryptographic system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): decode, decrypt\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 decode \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: To convert encoded text to plain text by means of a code.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): decipher, decrypt\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 decrypt \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A generic term encompassing decode and decipher.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): decipher, decode\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 decryption \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of transforming ciphertext into its original plaintext.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The process of converting encrypted data back into its original form, so it can be understood.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): decode, decrypt, decipher\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: ICAM SAML 2.0 WB SSO Profile 1.0.2\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 denial of service \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An attack that prevents or impairs the authorized use of information system resources or services.\
Adapted from: NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 designed-in security\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): Build Security In\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 digital forensics \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The processes and specialized techniques for gathering, retaining, and analyzing system-related data (digital evidence) for investigative purposes.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Collects, processes, preserves, analyzes, and presents computer-related evidence in support of network vulnerability, mitigation, and/or criminal, fraud, counterintelligence or law enforcement investigations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): computer forensics, forensics\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009; From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 digital rights management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A form of access control technology to protect and manage use of digital content or devices in accordance with the content or device provider's intentions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 digital signature
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A value computed with a cryptographic process using a private key and then appended to a data object, thereby digitally signing the data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): electronic signature\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, IETF RFC 2828, ICAM SAML 2.0 WB SSO Profile 1.0.2, InCommon Glossary, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 disruption \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An event which causes unplanned interruption in operations or functions for an unacceptable length of time.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 distributed denial of service \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A denial of service technique that uses numerous systems to perform the attack simultaneously.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): denial of service, botnet\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 dynamic attack surface \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The automated, on-the-fly changes of an information system's characteristics to thwart actions of an adversary.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 E
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Education and Training\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts training of personnel within pertinent subject domain; develop, plan, coordinate, deliver, and/or evaluate training courses, methods, and techniques as appropriate.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 electronic signature\'a0\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Any mark in electronic form associated with an electronic document, applied with the intent to sign the document.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): digital signature\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 encipher \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: To convert plaintext to ciphertext by means of a cryptographic system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): encode, encrypt\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 encode \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: To convert plaintext to ciphertext by means of a code.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): encipher, encrypt\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 encrypt \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The generic term encompassing encipher and encode.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): encipher, encode\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 encryption
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of transforming plaintext into ciphertext.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Converting data into a form that cannot be easily understood by unauthorized people.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): encode, encrypt, encipher\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, ICAM SAML 2.0 WB SSO Profile 1.0.2\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 enterprise risk management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A comprehensive approach to risk management that engages people, processes, and systems across an organization to improve the quality of decision making for managing risks that may hinder an organization\'92s ability to achieve its objectives.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Involves identifying mission dependencies on enterprise capabilities, identifying and prioritizing risks due to defined threats, implementing countermeasures to provide both a static risk posture and an effective dynamic response to active threats; and assessing enterprise performance against threats and adjusts countermeasures as necessary.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): risk management, integrated risk management, risk\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 event
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An observable occurrence in an information system or network.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Sometimes provides an indication that an incident is occurring or at least raise the suspicion that an incident may be occurring.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): incident\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 exfiltration\'a0\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The unauthorized transfer of information from an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): data breach\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 exploit \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A technique to breach the security of a network or information system in violation of security policy.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: ISO/IEC 27039 (draft), DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Exploitation Analysis \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Analyzes collected information to identify vulnerabilities and potential for exploitation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 exposure \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The condition of being unprotected, thereby allowing access to information or access to capabilities that an attacker can use to enter a system or network.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 F\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Failure \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The inability of a system or component to perform its required functions within specified performance requirements.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NCSD Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 firewall\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A capability to limit network traffic between networks and/or information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: A hardware/software device or a software program that limits network traffic according to a set of rules of what access is and is not allowed or authorized.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 forensics \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): digital forensics\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 G
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 H\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 hacker \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An unauthorized user who attempts to or gains access to an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 hash value \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A numeric value resulting from applying a mathematical algorithm against a set of data such as a file.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): cryptographic hash value\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): hashing\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 hashing \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A process of applying a mathematical algorithm against a set of data to produce a numeric value (a 'hash value') that represents the data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Mapping a bit string of arbitrary length to a fixed length bit string to produce the hash value.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): hash value\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 201-2\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 hazard \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A natural or man-made source or cause of harm or difficulty.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): threat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 I\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 ICT supply chain threat \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A man-made threat achieved through exploitation of the information and communications technology (ICT) system\'92s supply chain, including acquisition processes.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): supply chain, threat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS SCRM PMO\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 identity and access management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The methods and processes used to manage subjects and their authentication and authorizations to access specific objects.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 impact \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): consequence\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 incident \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An occurrence that actually or potentially results in adverse consequences to (adverse effects on) (poses a threat to) an information system or the information that the system processes, stores, or transmits and that may require a response action to mitigate the consequences.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: An occurrence that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): event\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 200, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, ISSG\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 incident management
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The management and coordination of activities associated with an actual or potential occurrence of an event that may result in adverse consequences to information or information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, ISSG NCPS Target Architecture Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 incident response
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The activities that address the short-term, direct effects of an incident and may also support short-term recovery.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In the Workforce framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Responds to crisis or urgent situations within the pertinent domain to mitigate immediate and potential threats; uses mitigation, preparedness, and response and recovery approaches, as needed, to maximize survival of life, preservation of property, and information security. Investigates and analyzes all relevant response activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): response\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): recovery\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 incident response plan
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A set of predetermined and documented procedures to detect and respond to a cyber incident.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 indicator \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An occurrence or sign that an incident may have occurred or may be in progress.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): precursor\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-61 Rev 2 (DRAFT), ISSG V1.2 Database\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Industrial Control System
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An information system used to control industrial processes such as manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution or to control infrastructure assets.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition, Operations Technology\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, NIST SP 800-82\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 information and communication(s) technology
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Any information technology, equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that processes, transmits, receives, or interchanges data or information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): information technology\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: The Access Board's 2011 Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for Section 508\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 information assurance\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The measures that protect and defend information and information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, and confidentiality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): information security\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Information Assurance Compliance
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Oversees, evaluates, and supports the documentation, validation, and accreditation processes necessary to assure that new IT systems meet the organization's information assurance and security requirements; ensures appropriate treatment of risk, compliance, and assurance from internal and external perspectives.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 information security policy
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An aggregate of directives, regulations, rules, and practices that prescribe how an organization manages, protects, and distributes information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): security policy\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009; NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 information sharing \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An exchange of data, information, and/or knowledge to manage risks or respond to incidents.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 information system resilience \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The ability of an information system to: (1) continue to operate under adverse conditions or stress, even if in a degraded or debilitated state, while maintaining essential operational capabilities; and (2) recover effectively in a timely manner.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): resilience\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Information Systems Security Operations
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Oversees the information assurance program of an information system in or outside the network environment; may include procurement duties (e.g., Information Systems Security Officer).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 information technology \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that processes, transmits, receives, or interchanges data or information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): information and communication(s) technology\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 rev. 4, based on 40 U.S.C. sec. 1401\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 inside( r) threat \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A person or group of persons within an organization who pose a potential risk through violating security policies.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: One or more individuals with the access and/or inside knowledge of a company, organization, or enterprise that would allow them to exploit the vulnerabilities of that entity's security, systems, services, products, or facilities with the intent to cause harm.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): outside( r) threat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009; From: NIAC Final Report and Recommendations on the Insider Threat to Critical Infrastructure, 2008\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 integrated risk management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The structured approach that enables an enterprise or organization to share risk information and risk analysis and to synchronize independent yet complementary risk management strategies to unify efforts across the enterprise.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): risk management, enterprise risk management\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 integrity \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The property whereby information, an information system, or a component of a system has not been modified or destroyed in an unauthorized manner.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: A state in which information has remained unaltered from the point it was produced by a source, during transmission, storage, and eventual receipt by the destination.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): availability, confidentiality, data integrity, system integrity\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, 44 U.S.C., Sec 3542, SANS; From SAFE-BioPharma Certificate Policy 2.5\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 intent \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A state of mind or desire to achieve an objective.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): capability\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 interoperability \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The ability of two or more systems or components to exchange information and to use the information that has been exchanged.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: IEEE Standard Computer Dictionary, DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 intrusion \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An unauthorized act of bypassing the security mechanisms of a network or information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): penetration\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 intrusion detection \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process and methods for analyzing information from networks and information systems to determine if a security breach or security violation has occurred.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, ISO/IEC 27039 (draft)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Investigate \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: a NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for the investigation of cyber events and/or crimes of IT systems, networks, and digital evidence\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 investigation \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A systematic and formal inquiry into a qualified threat or incident using digital forensics and perhaps other traditional criminal inquiry techniques to determine the events that transpired and to collect evidence.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Applies tactics, techniques, and procedures for a full range of investigative tools and processes to include but not limited to interview and interrogation techniques, surveillance, counter surveillance, and surveillance detection, and appropriately balances the benefits of prosecution versus intelligence gathering.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: ISSG V1.2 Database; Conrad, E., Misenauer, S., & Feldman, J. (2010). CISSP\'ae Study Guide. Burlington, MA: Syngress; From: NICE Workforce\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 IT asset \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): asset\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 J
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 K
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 key \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The numerical value used to control cryptographic operations, such as decryption, encryption, signature generation, or signature verification.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): private key, public key, secret key, symmetric key\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 key pair \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A public key and its corresponding private key.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Two mathematically related keys having the property that one key can be used to encrypt a message that can only be decrypted using the other key.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): private key, public key\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Certification Policy 2.25\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 key resource \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A publicly or privately controlled asset necessary to sustain continuity of government and/or economic operations, or an asset that is of great historical significance.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): critical infrastructure\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NCSD glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 keylogger \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Software or hardware that tracks keystrokes and keyboard events, usually surreptitiously / secretly, to monitor actions by the user of an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): spyware\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Knowledge Management\'a0
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Manages and administers processes and tools that enable the organization to identify, document, and access intellectual capital and information content.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 L\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Legal Advice and Advocacy\'a0
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Provides legally sound advice and recommendations to leadership and staff on a variety of relevant topics within the pertinent subject domain; advocates legal and policy changes and makes a case on behalf of client via a wide range of written and oral work products, including legal briefs and proceedings.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 M\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 machine learning and evolution \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A field concerned with designing and developing artificial intelligence algorithms for automated knowledge discovery and innovation by information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 macro virus
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A type of malicious code that attaches itself to documents and uses the macro programming capabilities of the document\'92s application to execute, replicate, and spread or propagate itself.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): virus\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 malicious applet \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A small application program that is automatically downloaded and executed and that performs an unauthorized function on an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): malicious code\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 malicious code \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Program code intended to perform an unauthorized function or process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Includes software, firmware, and scripts.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): malicious logic\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009. NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 malicious logic \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Hardware, firmware, or software that is intentionally included or inserted in a system to perform an unauthorized function or process that will have adverse impact on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): malicious code\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 malware
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Definition: Software that compromises the operation of a system by performing an unauthorized function or process.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): malicious code, malicious applet, malicious logic\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-83\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 mitigation \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The application of one or more measures to reduce the likelihood of an unwanted occurrence and/or lessen its consequences.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Implementing appropriate risk-reduction controls based on risk management priorities and analysis of alternatives.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 moving target defense
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The presentation of a dynamic attack surface, increasing an adversary's work factor necessary to probe, attack, or maintain presence in a cyber target.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 N
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 network resilience \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The ability of a network to: (1) provide continuous operation (i.e., highly resistant to disruption and able to operate in a degraded mode if damaged); (2) recover effectively if failure does occur; and (3) scale to meet rapid or unpredictable demands.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Network Services
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Installs, configures, tests, operates, maintains, and manages networks and their firewalls, including hardware (e.g., hubs, bridges, switches, multiplexers, routers, cables, proxy servers, and protective distributor systems) and software that permit the sharing and transmission of all spectrum transmissions of information to support the security of information and information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 non-repudiation
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Definition: A property achieved through cryptographic methods to protect against an individual or entity falsely denying having performed a particular action related to data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Provides the capability to determine whether a given individual took a particular action such as creating information, sending a message, approving information, and receiving a message.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): integrity, authenticity\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009; From: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 O
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 object\'a0\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A passive information system-related entity containing or receiving information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): subject, access, access control\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Operate & Maintain
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for providing the support, administration, and maintenance necessary to ensure effective and efficient IT system performance and security.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 operational exercise
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An action-based exercise where personnel rehearse reactions to an incident scenario, drawing on their understanding of plans and procedures, roles, and responsibilities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Also referred to as operations-based exercise.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Operations Technology \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The hardware and software systems used to operate industrial control devices.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): Industrial Control System\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 outside( r) threat \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A person or group of persons external to an organization who are not authorized to access its assets and pose a potential risk to the organization and its assets.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): inside( r) threat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Oversight & Development
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas providing leadership, management, direction, and/or development and advocacy so that all individuals and the organization may effectively conduct cybersecurity work.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 P\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 passive attack \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An actual assault perpetrated by an intentional threat source that attempts to learn or make use of information from a system, but does not attempt to alter the system, its resources, its data, or its operations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): active attack\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: IETF RFC 4949, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 password
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A string of characters (letters, numbers, and other symbols) used to authenticate an identity or to verify access authorization.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: FIPS 140-2\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 pen test \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A colloquial term for penetration test or penetration testing.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): penetration testing\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 penetration \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): intrusion\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 penetration testing
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An evaluation methodology whereby assessors search for vulnerabilities and attempt to circumvent the security features of a network and/or information system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Personal Identifying Information / Personally Identifiable Information \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The information that permits the identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009, GAO Report 08-356, as cited in NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 phishing \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A digital form of social engineering to deceive individuals into providing sensitive information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 plaintext \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Unencrypted information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): ciphertext\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 precursor
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An observable occurrence or sign that an attacker may be preparing to cause an incident.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): indicator\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-61 Rev 2 (DRAFT)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Preparedness \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The activities to build, sustain, and improve readiness capabilities to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from natural or manmade incidents.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIPP\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 privacy \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The assurance that the confidentiality of, and access to, certain information about an entity is protected.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The ability of individuals to understand and exercise control over how information about themselves may be used by others.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NIST SP 800-130; Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 private key \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A cryptographic key that must be kept confidential and is used to enable the operation of an asymmetric (public key) cryptographic algorithm.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The secret part of an asymmetric key pair that is uniquely associated with an entity.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): public key, asymmetric cryptography\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1, FIPS 201-2, FIPS 140-2, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Certification Policy 2.25\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Protect & Defend \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for the identification, analysis, and mitigation of threats to internal IT systems or networks.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 public key \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A cryptographic key that may be widely published and is used to enable the operation of an asymmetric (public key) cryptographic algorithm.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The public part of an asymmetric key pair that is uniquely associated with an entity and that may be made public.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): private key, asymmetric cryptography\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1, FIPS 201-2, FIPS 140-2, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Certification Policy 2.25\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 public key cryptography \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A branch of cryptography in which a cryptographic system or algorithms use two uniquely linked keys: a public key and a private key (a key pair).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): asymmetric cryptography, public key encryption\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 140-2, InCommon Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 public key encryption \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): public key cryptography\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Public Key Infrastructure \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A framework consisting of standards and services to enable secure, encrypted communication and authentication over potentially insecure networks such as the Internet.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: A framework and services for generating, producing, distributing, controlling, accounting for, and revoking (destroying) public key certificates.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, IETF RFC 2828, Federal Bridge Certificate Authority Cross-certification Methodology 3.0, InCommon Glossary, Kantara Identity Assurance Framework 1100, NIST SP 800-63 Rev 1\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 Q
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 R\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Recovery
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The activities after an incident or event to restore essential services and operations in the short and medium term and fully restore all capabilities in the longer term.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIPP\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Red Team \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A group authorized and organized to emulate a potential adversary\'92s attack or exploitation capabilities against an enterprise\'92s cybersecurity posture.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): Blue Team, White Team\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Red Team exercise \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An exercise, reflecting real-world conditions, that is conducted as a simulated attempt by an adversary to attack or exploit vulnerabilities in an enterprise's information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): cyber exercise\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 redundancy \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Additional or alternative systems, sub-systems, assets, or processes that maintain a degree of overall functionality in case of loss or failure of another system, sub-system, asset, or process.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 resilience \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The ability to adapt to changing conditions and prepare for, withstand, and rapidly recover from disruption.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 From: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 response \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The activities that address the short-term, direct effects of an incident and may also support short-term recovery.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, response encompasses both automated and manual activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): recovery\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: National Infrastructure Protection Plan, NCPS Target Architecture Glossary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 response plan
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): incident response plan\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 risk
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The potential for an unwanted or adverse outcome resulting from an incident, event, or occurrence, as determined by the likelihood that a particular threat will exploit a particular vulnerability, with the associated consequences.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NIPP and adapted from: CNSSI 4009, FIPS 200, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, SAFE-BioPharma Certificate Policy 2.5\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 risk analysis \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The systematic examination of the components and characteristics of risk.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): risk assessment, risk\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 risk assessment \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The product or process which collects information and assigns values to risks for the purpose of informing priorities, developing or comparing courses of action, and informing decision making.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The appraisal of the risks facing an entity, asset, system, or network, organizational operations, individuals, geographic area, other organizations, or society, and includes determining the extent to which adverse circumstances or events could result in harmful consequences.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): risk analysis, risk\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 risk management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of identifying, analyzing, assessing, and communicating risk and accepting, avoiding, transferring or controlling it to an acceptable level considering associated costs and benefits of any actions taken.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Includes: 1) conducting a risk assessment; 2) implementing strategies to mitigate risks; 3) continuous monitoring of risk over time; and 4) documenting the overall risk management program.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): enterprise risk management, integrated risk management, risk\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS Risk Lexicon and Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 risk mitigation\'a0
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): mitigation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 risk-based data management\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Definition: A structured approach to managing risks to data and information by which an organization selects and applies appropriate security controls in compliance with policy and commensurate with the sensitivity and value of the data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 rootkit \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A set of software tools with administrator-level access privileges installed on an information system and designed to hide the presence of the tools, maintain the access privileges, and conceal the activities conducted by the tools.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 S
\b0 \cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 secret key \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A cryptographic key that is used for both encryption and decryption, enabling the operation of a symmetric key cryptography scheme.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Also, a cryptographic algorithm that uses a single key (i.e., a secret key) for both encryption of plaintext and decryption of ciphertext.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): symmetric key\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Securely Provision
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas concerned with conceptualizing, designing, and building secure IT systems, with responsibility for some aspect of the systems' development.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 security automation \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The use of information technology in place of manual processes for cyber incident response and management.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 security incident \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): incident\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 security policy
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A rule or set of rules that govern the acceptable use of an organization's information and services to a level of acceptable risk and the means for protecting the organization's information assets.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: A rule or set of rules applied to an information system to provide security services.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4, NIST SP 800-130, OASIS SAML Glossary 2.0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Security Program Management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Manages information security (e.g., information security) implications within the organization, specific program, or other area of responsibility, to include strategic, personnel, infrastructure, policy enforcement, emergency planning, security awareness, and other resources (e.g., the role of a Chief Information Security Officer).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 signature
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A recognizable, distinguishing pattern.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Types of signatures: attack signature, digital signature, electronic signature.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009; Adapted from: NIST SP 800-94\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 situational awareness \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Comprehending information about the current and developing security posture and risks, based on information gathered, observation and analysis, and knowledge or experience.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In cybersecurity, comprehending the current status and security posture with respect to availability, confidentiality, and integrity of networks, systems, users, and data, as well as projecting future states of these.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, DHS personnel, National Response Framework\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 software assurance \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The level of confidence that software is free from vulnerabilities, either intentionally designed into the software or accidentally inserted at any time during its lifecycle, and that the software functions in the intended manner.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Software Assurance and Security Engineering \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops and writes/codes new (or modifies existing) computer applications, software, or specialized utility programs following software assurance best practices.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 spam \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The abuse of electronic messaging systems to indiscriminately send unsolicited bulk messages.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 spillage \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): data spill, data breach\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Spoofing \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Faking the sending address of a transmission to gain illegal [unauthorized] entry into a secure system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: The deliberate inducement of a user or resource to take incorrect action. Note: Impersonating, masquerading, piggybacking, and mimicking are forms of spoofing.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 spyware \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Software that is secretly or surreptitiously installed into an information system without the knowledge of the system user or owner.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): keylogger\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Strategic Planning and Policy Development \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Applies knowledge of priorities to define an entity.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 subject \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An individual, process, or device causing information to flow among objects or a change to the system state.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: An active entity.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): object, access, access control\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4., CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing data and applying operational controls to geographically dispersed assets over long distances.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): Industrial Control System\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 supply chain \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A system of organizations, people, activities, information and resources, for creating and moving products including product components and/or services from suppliers through to their customers.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): supply chain risk management\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Supply Chain Risk Management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The process of identifying, analyzing, and assessing supply chain risk and accepting, avoiding, transferring or controlling it to an acceptable level considering associated costs and benefits of any actions taken.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): supply chain\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSD 505\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 symmetric cryptography \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A branch of cryptography in which a cryptographic system or algorithms use the same secret key (a shared secret key).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009, SANS\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 symmetric encryption algorithm \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): symmetric cryptography\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 symmetric key
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A cryptographic key that is used to perform both the cryptographic operation and its inverse, for example to encrypt plaintext and decrypt ciphertext, or create a message authentication code and to verify the code.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Also, a cryptographic algorithm that uses a single key (i.e., a secret key) for both encryption of plaintext and decryption of ciphertext.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): secret key\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 System Administration \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Installs, configures, troubleshoots, and maintains server configurations (hardware and software) to ensure their confidentiality, integrity, and availability; also manages accounts, firewalls, and patches; responsible for access control, passwords, and account creation and administration.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 system integrity\'a0
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The attribute of an information system when it performs its intended function in an unimpaired manner, free from deliberate or inadvertent unauthorized manipulation of the system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): integrity, data integrity\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Systems Development\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Works on the development phases of the systems development lifecycle.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Systems Requirements Planning \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Consults with customers to gather and evaluate functional requirements and translates these requirements into technical solutions; provides guidance to customers about applicability of information systems to meet business needs.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Systems Security Analysis
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts the integration/testing, operations, and maintenance of systems security.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Systems Security Architecture \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops system concepts and works on the capabilities phases of the systems development lifecycle; translates technology and environmental conditions (e.g., law and regulation) into system and security designs and processes.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 T\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 tabletop exercise \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A discussion-based exercise where personnel meet in a classroom setting or breakout groups and are presented with a scenario to validate the content of plans, procedures, policies, cooperative agreements or other information for managing an incident.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: NCSD Glossary, DHS Homeland Security Exercise and Evaluation Program\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 tailored trustworthy space
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A cyberspace environment that provides a user with confidence in its security, using automated mechanisms to ascertain security conditions and adjust the level of security based on the user's context and in the face of an evolving range of threats.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: National Science and Technology Council's Trustworthy Cyberspace: Strategic Plan for the Federal Cybersecurity Research and Development Program\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Targets \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Applies current knowledge of one or more regions, countries, non-state entities, and/or technologies.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Technology Research and Development\'a0\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts technology assessment and integration processes; provides and supports a prototype capability and/or evaluates its utility.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Test and Evaluation
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Develops and conducts tests of systems to evaluate compliance with specifications and requirements by applying principles and methods for cost-effective planning, evaluating, verifying, and validating of technical, functional, and performance characteristics (including interoperability) of systems or elements of systems incorporating information technology.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 threat \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A circumstance or event that has or indicates the potential to exploit vulnerabilities and to adversely impact (create adverse consequences for) organizational operations, organizational assets (including information and information systems), individuals, other organizations, or society.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Includes an individual or group of individuals, entity such as an organization or a nation), action, or occurrence.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, NIPP, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 threat actor\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Synonym(s): threat agent\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 threat agent \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An individual, group, organization, or government that conducts or has the intent to conduct detrimental activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): adversary, attacker\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 threat analysis \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: The detailed evaluation of the characteristics of individual threats.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Identifies and assesses the capabilities and activities of cyber criminals or foreign intelligence entities; produces findings to help initialize or support law enforcement and counterintelligence investigations or activities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel; From NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 threat assessment \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Definition: The product or process of identifying or evaluating entities, actions, or occurrences, whether natural or man-made, that have or indicate the potential to harm life, information, operations, and/or property.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): threat analysis\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: DHS Risk Lexicon and adapted from: CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53, Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 ticket \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In access control, data that authenticates the identity of a client or a service and, together with a temporary encryption key (a session key), forms a credential.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: IETF RFC 4120 Kerberos V5, July 2005; Conrad, E., Misenauer, S., & Feldman, J. (2010). CISSP\'ae Study Guide. Burlington, MA: Syngress\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 traffic light protocol \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A set of designations employing four colors (RED, AMBER, GREEN, and WHITE) used to ensure that sensitive information is shared with the correct audience.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: US-CERT\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Trojan horse \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A computer program that appears to have a useful function, but also has a hidden and potentially malicious function that evades security mechanisms, sometimes by exploiting legitimate authorizations of a system entity that invokes the program.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 U\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 unauthorized access \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: Any access that violates the stated security policy.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 V\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 virus \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A computer program that can replicate itself, infect a computer without permission or knowledge of the user, and then spread or propagate to another computer.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): macro virus\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 vulnerability \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A characteristic or specific weakness that renders an organization or asset (such as information or an information system) open to exploitation by a given threat or susceptible to a given hazard.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Extended Definition: Characteristic of location or security posture or of design, security procedures, internal controls, or the implementation of any of these that permit a threat or hazard to occur. Vulnerability (expressing degree of vulnerability): qualitative or quantitative expression of the level of susceptibility to harm when a threat or hazard is realized.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): weakness\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS Risk Lexicon, CNSSI 4009, NIST SP 800-53 Rev 4\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 Vulnerability Assessment and Management \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: In the NICE Workforce Framework, cybersecurity work where a person: Conducts assessments of threats and vulnerabilities, determines deviations from acceptable configurations, enterprise or local policy, assesses the level of risk, and develops and/or recommends appropriate mitigation countermeasures in operational and non-operational situations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: NICE Workforce Framework\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cf4 \cb3 \strokec4 W\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 weakness \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A shortcoming or imperfection in software code, design, architecture, or deployment that, under proper conditions, could become a vulnerability or contribute to the introduction of vulnerabilities.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): vulnerability\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: ITU-T X.1520 CWE, FY 2013 CIO FISMA Reporting Metrics\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 White Team
\b0 \'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A group responsible for refereeing an engagement between a Red Team of mock attackers and a Blue Team of actual defenders of information systems.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): Blue Team, Red Team\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 whitelist\'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A list of entities that are considered trustworthy and are granted access or privileges.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Related Term(s): blacklist\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: DHS personnel\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 work factor
\b0 \'a0\'a0\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: An estimate of the effort or time needed by a potential adversary, with specified expertise and resources, to overcome a protective measure.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Adapted from: CNSSI 4009\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\b \cb3 worm \'a0
\b0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Definition: A self-replicating, self-propagating, self-contained program that uses networking mechanisms to spread itself.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \cb3 From: CNSSI 4009\
}