Bank of Valletta turns off the lights as cyber attackers strike
https://www.finextra.com/newsarticle/33403/bank-of-valletta-turns-off-the-lights-as-cyber-attackers-strike?utm_medium=rss&utm_source=finextrafeed

Daily Crunch: Stop repeating this privacy lie
http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/Techcrunch/~3/1u2pw1IF7qg/

China accuses Washington of trying to block development
https://abcnews.go.com/Business/wireStory/china-accuses-washington-block-development-61142398

China accuses US of trying to block its tech development
https://abcnews.go.com/Technology/wireStory/china-accuses-us-block-tech-development-61145772

Australia cree que un gobierno extranjero orquestó ciberataque contra su Parlamento
http://www.cooperativa.cl/noticias/mundo/pacifico-sur/australia/australia-cree-que-un-gobierno-extranjero-orquesto-ciberataque-contra-su/2019-02-18/012147.html

Growing Up Gifted review – some hope amid the classism and cruelty
https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2019/feb/18/growing-up-gifted-review-moments-of-hope-amid-the-classism-and-cruelty

Facebook security app used to 'spy' on competitors
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-47281906

No claims to be made on security deposit, licence fees paid by bike-sharing operators: Lam Pin Min
https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/no-claims-to-be-made-on-security-deposit-licence-fees-paid-by-11252738

An app may be stealing your bank data, RBI warns digital, UPI users
https://www.business-standard.com/article/finance/digital-banking-upi-users-beware-rbi-warns-against-anydesk-all-you-need-to-know-119021800425_1.html

Park Lane stabbing: Fourth man charged with murder after fatal stabbing of security guard outside New Year&apos;s Eve party
https://www.standard.co.uk/news/london/park-lane-stabbing-fourth-man-charged-with-murdering-security-guard-outside-new-years-eve-party-a4069136.html

Britain does not support total Huawei network ban: sources
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/ZiqjBdPt7kY/britain-does-not-support-total-huawei-network-ban-sources-idUSKCN1Q60NR

Britain does not support total Huawei network ban: sources
http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/businessNews/~3/Ju9pmOplB7c/britain-does-not-support-total-huawei-network-ban-sources-idUSKCN1Q60NR

Australia Faces Another Border Security Election: QuickTake Q&A
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-02-18/australia-faces-another-border-security-election-quicktake-q-a

A Deep Dive on the Recent Widespread DNS Hijacking Attacks
https://krebsonsecurity.com/2019/02/a-deep-dive-on-the-recent-widespread-dns-hijacking-attacks/

Smoke damage and hard drives
http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/eset/blog/~3/FCeGHGLTq7I/

Privacy Ops: The New Nexus for CISOs & DPOs
https://www.darkreading.com/endpoint/privacy-ops-the-new-nexus-for-cisos-and-dpos/a/d-id/1333878?_mc=rss_x_drr_edt_aud_dr_x_x-rss-simple

Mega-crackers back with nearly 100 million new stolen data records
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2019/02/18/mega-crackers-back-with-nearly-100-million-new-stolen-data-records/

Will the EU’s new copyright directive ruin the web?
https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2019/02/18/will-the-eus-new-copyright-directive-ruin-the-web/

Apple sued over death blamed on faulty iPad battery
https://www.grahamcluley.com/apple-sued-over-death-blamed-on-faulty-ipad-battery/

Unlock the power of threat intelligence with this practical guide. Get your free copy now
https://www.grahamcluley.com/feed-sponsor-recorded-future/

Chinese Surveillance Database Exposes Millions of IDs
https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/chinese-surveillance-database-1/

MPs Repeat Calls for Russian Brexit Meddling Probe
https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/mps-repeat-calls-for-russian-1-1-1/

PoC Exploit Code for recent container escape flaw in runc published online
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/81313/hacking/runc-flaw-poc-code.html

New Trickbot module implements Remote App Credential-Grabbing features
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/81264/malware/trickbot-malware-evolves.html

Toyota PASTA Car-Hacking Tool will be soon on GitHub
https://securityaffairs.co/wordpress/81258/hacking/pasta-car-hacking-tool-2.html

Popular Torrent Uploader 'CracksNow' Caught Spreading Ransomware
http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/TheHackersNews/~3/_Jl0gqkIDpE/malware-torrent-download.html

Over 92 Million New Accounts Up for Sale from More Unreported Breaches
http://feedproxy.google.com/~r/TheHackersNews/~3/OUK0Lnd86k0/data-breach-sale-darkweb.html

